# nypl-boilerplate

In order to help kick things off with TypeScript 2, I put together a little template that shows how to set up a simple TypeScript project with unit testing (via Mocha). The main files to note are as follows:

* `package.json`: This is the file used to specify an npm package. Most JavaScript developers are probably familiar with npm nowadays, but if you are not then there are a number of good tutorials out there you can find with just a bit of searching.

* `tsconfig.json`: This is the config file for TypeScript. It just sets a bunch of safety-focused compiler options (of which `noImplicitAny` and `strictNullChecks` are especially important), says where the main typings file is that provides typings for library dependencies (`typings/index.d.ts`), and says where the source files and tests are for the project.

* `typings.json`: This file indicates which typings to use for library dependencies. This file is automatically generated by the `typings` command and is then checked into source control to lock the project to a specific version of the typings. If you're familiar with `Podfile.lock` in CocoaPods, this is the same idea.

* `.vscode/settings.json`: This is a file automatically generated by Visual Studio Code. The setting in the file tells Visual Studio Code to use the version of TypeScript installed for the project and not some global or bundled version. This ensures everyone building the project with Visual Studio Code uses the exact same version of the compiler specified in `package.json`. (While you do not need to use Visual Studio Code to develop TypeScript libraries, I highly recommend it. It's great!)

To get started, you'll need to install npm. I recommend doing this from MacPorts, but any other alternative (e.g. HomeBrew) should also do the trick. 

Once npm is installed, you'll need to install the typings command so you can install typings for your TypeScript projects. To do this, run `npm install typings --global`. (If npm says you do not have the required permissions, do _not_ use `sudo`. Instead, set the npm global package location to be in your user directory by adding `prefix=/Users/your-username/.npm-global` or similar to `~/.npmrc`).

To build the project, simply do `npm install`. When the build is complete, the resulting JavaScript files will be in the `dist` directory. To run the tests, do `npm test`. If you want to start from scratch for some reason, you can `npm run clean`. That's pretty much it!
